set Ordering.API as startUp project 



register layers as service in Ordering.API (migration need connection string from the startup project so without this no migration):

builder.Services.AddApplicationServices();
builder.Services.AddInfrastructureServices(Configuration);



Migraton:

the migration have --startup-project parameter you can specify the project which contains your connection string (in app.config e.g.).

migration need connection string to get migration history.

You can have your migrations in a seperate project (which doesn't contain the connection string).

when you run the Add-Migration command in the Ordering.Infrastructure project, it will use the connection string provided during service registration to create the migration based on the configured database connection.



Entity Framework Core Tools are a set of command-line tools provided by Microsoft 


Ordering.Domain, Ordering.Application and Ordering.Infrastructure:

This is created from class library project template


Add project reference:

right click Dependencies and select "Add Project Reference"

depends on (->)

API -> Application and Infrastructure

Infrastructure -> Application

Application -> Domain

Domain -> None



What is Domain-Driven Design?


Domain-Driven Design (DDD) is an approach to software development that focuses on building complex software systems by closely aligning the implementation with the business domain it represents. 

The main goals of Domain-Driven Design include:

1. Ubiquitous Language: The goal of ubiquitous language is to bridge the communication gap between the domain experts and the development team, ensuring a common understanding of the business domain and its concepts. Programmers play a crucial role in capturing the domain knowledge and translating it into a software model. They are responsible for creating the domain model (entities), which represents the business concepts, relationships, and behavior.

2. Domain Modeling: DDD encourages the creation of a domain model that represents the core concepts, relationships, and behavior of the business domain. The domain model captures the essential elements of the problem space and serves as a guide for designing the software solution.

3. Bounded Contexts: A bounded context is a well-defined boundary that encapsulates a specific part of the domain model along with its associated language, rules, and context. DDD recognizes that complex domains may have different contexts with their own models and constraints. 